In step 3, we want to prioritize the sprint backlog items.
But first,
I want to make the point and rationale that prioritization is one of
the most important aspects of the planning process.
Have you ever been stuck in a sprint planning meeting where everyone has
a different opinion of what to do first in a sprint?
So choosing the right thing to do allows you to maximize the
value delivered in the sprint to the business.
Having a shared understanding of priorities empowers a
team to move in a uniform direction.
Hopefully everyone can come together and support the product owner's priorities.
And if the top items are known, well understood,
and we all appreciate the value to the business,
we can all better focus or refocus towards a common goal.
Now let's set the stage for the product owner.
The full context is important to know and understand
prior to the prioritization discussions.
The goals of the next sprint or iteration should be clear
and described by the product owner.
The results of the last sprint or iteration are known,
and those results and feedback are incorporated into
the sprint planning's discussions.
The backlog items should contain items that are of reasonable size and
could fit several into this iteration or sprint.
Many times, product owners just want it all,
and they may want to change the length of the sprint.
If so,
try and challenge that by stating productivity may
actually suffer by doing that.
Limited scope.
We only need to figure out what needs to go into this iteration.
Don't spend too much time or any time, if possible,
talking about backlog items that are not in the sprint.
Certainly,
you will talk about some that may be on the margin
of being in or out of the sprint.
That is normal,
but the team can get certainly sidetracked by talking about
items that are not relevant at this time,
so watch out for that.
So the team has the full context in which to make priority decisions.
Goals, previous sprint results, and right size in the items for the next sprint.
The product owner can probably set these priorities fairly easily with
knowledge of this context and armed with the product vision,
the product roadmap, and the release plans as a backdrop.
You may be wondering how you go about determining priorities.
Let's find out.
Let's go through some great guidelines or questions I would like you to
ask your team during sprint planning that will help you better
prioritize your backlogs and guide your decisions.
Which items provide the most value to the customer?
The product owner will identify them within the context we just discussed.
Which items provide the most benefit to the business?
Again, the product owner will identify them.
What is the lowest hanging fruit?
You might consider what might be the easiest items to do.
That is something that can be quickly deployed to provide value.
Which items are the riskiest?
Maybe you hold off at a risky item even if it provides much value.
Maybe for this sprint planning the risk is still too high,
and maybe other items need to be in place before the risk can come down.
Which items result in the highest cost if not done now?
This is known as the cost of delaying, the cost of not doing something,
so consider that.
What are the dependencies between items?
Some items may be dependent on each other,
or a feature must be in place before another one can be implemented.
Which items contribute most to the sprint goal?
Be sure you circle back around and ensure the team
agrees and understands the sprint goals,
which will act as your guidepost.
Now let's look at our results of prioritization.
Here we carry forward our story points we estimated in step 2,
and the team has prioritized three user stories.
And this is the priority order: story 7, then 2, and then 1.
And by the way, when we started the process,
the stories were in a different order.
Through our discussions, we have rearranged them.
When this happens,
I always feel much better because it usually reveals more teamwork,
deeper understanding of the business domain by the developers,
and the product owner knowing just what he or she wants next.
But will it fit into the sprint? Let's see.